article

-0.5in
-0.5in
0.0in
0in
0in
7.0in
9.5in
0in
0.05in
0.3pt
fancyvrb
relsize
hyperref



Name: 

Directions: Work only on this sheet (on both sides, if needed); do not
turn in any supplementary sheets of paper. There is actually plenty of room
for your answers, as long as you organize yourself BEFORE starting writing.

SHOW YOUR WORK! 

0. Advice:  The first three problems have half-line answers and
should be very quick.  Most of the other problems also have very short
answers, but may or may not be quick.

1. (15) Fill in the blank with a term from our course:  In comparing
two estimators of some population quantity, we might consider the better
one to be the one with smaller
.

2. (15) Consider the R code on p.262, which consists of assignments
to md and lmout.  Suppose we wish to fit a model with no
first-degree term, i.e. (9.12) would change to





How should we change the code in the line on p.262 that assigns to 
lmout?  Assume that the line assigning to md is retained.

3. (10) Consider the R code at the top of p.200.  Give an
approximate 95 confidence interval for the population value .
Your answer will be in the form , where c and d are
numerical expressions, e.g. .

4. Suppose the random variable X is equal to 1, 2 and 3, with
probabilities c, c and 1-2c.  The value c is thus a population
parameter.  We have a random sample  from this population.



[(a)] (15) Show that the Method of Moments Estimator of c, which we
will denote by , is .

[(b)] (15) Find the bias of .  Cite mailing tubes and other
reasons!



5. In the notation of Chapter 9, give matrix and/or vector
expressions for each of the following in the linear regression model:



[(a)] (10) , our estimator of  

[(b)] (10) the standard error of the estimated value of the
regression function  at , where 
.



6. (10) Suppose Jack and Jill each collect random samples
of size n from a population having unknown mean  but KNOWN variance
.  They each form an approximate 95 confidence interval for
, using (6.21) but with s replaced by .  Find the
approximate probability that their intervals do not overlap.  Express
your answer in terms of , the cdf of the N(0,1) distribution.

Solutions:

1.  Mean squared error.  Partial credit was given for some other
answers, but it was emphasized that MSE is the major criterion, as it
balances variance and bias.

2. 

[fontsize=-2]
lm(md[,2]   md[,3])


3. 

4a. , so c =
(3-EX)/3.  So, set .

4b.









So, the bias is 0.

5a.







Note that hats!

5b.



 

so



 

Then (5.88) yields




 

Thus the sample estimated variance is



 

so that the standard error is



 

6. The probability of nonoverlap is double the probability that
Jack's interval is entirely to the left of Jill's.  Since each interval
has radius , Jack's interval will be entirely to
the left of Jill's if 






we have






So, we need the distribution of .  
But  and by independence





so W has standard deviation .  Thus











You might be surprised to see that the answer is independent of n.  The
actual value is about 0.16.  So, Jack and Jill have about a 16 chance
of having nonoverlapping intervals.

 
